In this lecture, we are going to discuss some popular compliance laws and regulations. The compliance

landscape has evolved significantly during the recent years, and now companies are obligated to protect

the integrity and confidentiality of information that they gather.

We are also going to have a look at some intellectual property instruments.

Before we delve into details of compliance, there are some key terms which you must understand, the

first of these is PII or personally identifiable information.

Now, this is information that can be used to identify, contact or locate someone.

And this includes things like full name, driver's license number, Social Security number, home address and

contact numbers.

Any organisation that collects, stores and processes this information must be protected, and they are

also obligated to announce the breaches that pass a certain threshold.

There are also some penalties that are applied for organizations that do not comply.

The next important term that we need to understand is PHI, which is Protected Health Information.

Now, this refers to health information, including health care plans, payment and history that can

be linked to an individual.

This includes things like names and addresses, health records such as medical or dental, full face

scans and biometric data and health insurance numbers.

The primary difference between PII and PHI is that PHI caters specifically to health related information.

Similar to PII, every organisation that collects, stores and processes

this kind of information must protect it.

There are laws and regulations in place which we are going to discuss shortly, and there are penalties

applied if organizations do not comply with these regulations.

Let's have a look at some of the popular compliance regulations, so the first one is GDP or general

data protection regulation.

This was introduced by the European Union in order to protect the personal data of EU citizens worldwide.

An important point to note here is that an organization can be located anywhere in the world, even

outside EU.

But if they collect, process and store the data of EU citizens, then GDPR applies to them as well.

The next one is HIPAA, which stands for Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.

Now this is aimed at protecting health care information.

And the third one is PCI-DSS, which is payment card industry data security standard protection

regulation, and it is aimed at protecting credit card data.

We are now going to have a more detailed look at each of these regulations.

Let's start with GDPR or the General Data Protection Regulation, and here are the salient features.

So the first is purpose limitation. Data should be collected and used only for the stated purposes.

So an organization cannot use data for purposes it has not explicitly declared.

Data breaches must be reported within 72 hours.

Failure to do so may incur penalties and penalties are huge in GDPR. So fines can go up to four million

euros or four percent of annual turnover.

GDPR also mandates ensuring the integrity of the data, so data must be safeguarded, encryption

should be employed and privacy should be enforced.

Storage limitation states that only data that is needed should be stored and other data should be

deleted.

So if a company has collected data about an individual and they're only using part of their data, so

the rest of the data should be deleted, they cannot just stored it indefinitely in the hopes of using

it in the future.

GDPR also provides the "right to be forgotten", which basically means that organisations need to provide

individuals the option of selecting whether they want their data to remain indefinitely with the company

or whether they want it to be deleted.

And if they choose so, the company must delete the data.

Now, this gives tremendous powers to individuals because they can opt whether the data lives indefinitely

with the company or whether they want it to be deleted.

So next is HIPAA - Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act.

And here are the salient features of HIPAA.

So the first one is physical protection.

Companies must control and monitor access to systems and track electronic personal health information

devices.

Second one is admin production. Companies must manage risk, they must block unauthorised access and

train staff in order to do so.

Companies must immediately notify patients, health authorities and possibly media, about breaches.

It should be noted that breaches need to pass a certain threshold.

So if the breach passes 500 or more records, then the company is obligated to make these announcements.

If the breach is very small, then they do not need to actually notify media, for example.

The privacy rule states that a company must respond to patient's request for information.

So basically a patient can request a company to share all of the information that they have collected

about him.

HIPAA has different years of penalties which range from hundred dollars per violation of up to

1.5 million dollars per year if the company is shown to wilfully neglect HIPAA regulation.

HIPAA also enforces technical protection, which means the need to protect the confidentiality and integrity

of data so companies must encrypt electronic personal health information and they must control and log

any access to EPHI.

The third one is PCI-DSS, which is aimed at protecting credit card data. Companies, which want to

be compliant with PCI-DSS must do the following.

The first one is vulnerability management, which means that companies should have an appropriate vulnerability

management program in place, which basically scans for any possible vulnerabilities and addresses them.

The second one is Secure

network and communication. Companies must employ appropriate tools in order to encrypt and secure their

end-to-end communication.

The third one is network monitoring and testing, so companies must have mechanisms which ensure that

the network is properly monitored and any breaches or malware infections are detected.

The fourth one is authentication and access security.

So companies must have appropriate mechanisms which ensure that end users are properly authenticated.

A simple example could be that a client wants to make a credit card payment and if it is doing so on

HTTP, then it means the company has breached PCI-DSS because the end-to-end connection is not encrypted.

It is being done in plain text, which can lead to possible compromise of the credit card data.

So they should always use HTTPS

for instance, in order to ensure that the end to end payment channel is encrypted.

Here are some tips on being compliant with these regulations, as the old saying goes, prevention is

better than cure.

If your company can conduct business without extensively collecting personally identifiable information

and protected health information, you should do that.

And even if you have to collect it, then it should be the minimal set that is required.

An example could be if you want to enable online payments on your website.

So one option could be that you collect all of the information, including clients name, address,

credit card information, phone numbers and so on.

And then you also store payment information.

Another option could be you could use third party things like PayPal and you just redirect the client

to them.

And from there you just get a confirmation of the payment.

So if payment confirmation is the only thing required for conducting your business, you should definitely

do that.

There is no point in collecting extensive information, which is only going to increase your exposure

factor.

You should always use encryption both at rest, so for example, your database should be encrypted,

in transit when you're sending your data over the public Internet, for example.

So you should use, for example, IPSec or TLS.

You should also implement a security framework for controlling access to data, so your data should be

properly classified.

For example, it is private,

is it confidential, is it public?

And then you should assign access to different users based on that.

Let's discuss intellectual property, a concept that is increasingly becoming important in the world.

So today, the focus of wealth creation is increasingly moving away from tangible assets such as real

estate to intangible assets such as intellectual capital.

The problem is that we have extensive tools and laws in order to protect tangible assets, but we also

need similar tools to protect these intangible assets.

So intellectual property is an intangible type of property that has been created using the human intellect.

Some of the popular tools that are used to protect intellectual property include trademark.

So which gives the owner exclusive right to the use of phrase, symbol or design.

And this prevents companies from selling products using similar logos.

So, for example, these trademarks are used by McDonald's and Nestlé and other companies are not allowed

to use them.

The next is copyright, which basically protects the creative or intellectual work such as images,

music and other works of art.

Now copyright is valid for the life of the author,

and then an additional 70 years after that. An important point to note is that for copyright, it is

nice to get it registered.

But even if it is not registered, and you can show the date of publication, whether it's online or in

the form of a book or anything, if you can prove the date of publication, then you already own the

copyright to that.

So whatever you publish, if it is original and you can prove the date of publication, then it means

that it is automatically copyrighted.

The third one is patent, which prevents anyone from making, using or selling the patented invention.

This is extensively used by commercial enterprises to launch specific products.

Now patent is valid for 20 years, and it is also only applicable in the country

it was filed.

So if you want an international patent, you have to apply in different countries.

This concludes our lecture.

I'll see you in the next one.